# Checkpoint 10 - Boilerplate and Mobile Device Testing

http://github.com/bltbit/showdown/tree/checkpoint-10

> Never stop forking around.  
> _~Ben_

## What the heck are we doing?

You're going to program your own copy of a game I named **Showdown**. Showdown is special because it's designed to be a massively-multiplayer game where you can run and program your own node of the in-game world. That means you'll be using all the tools and techniques of a real-world app because it is a real world app. You'll be learning frontend programming, backend programming, cloud architecture, realtime communications, authentication, and so much more

But it all begins with a blank screen.

To get us all on the same starting page, I've created a boilerplate starting point. You could easily make it yourself, but it's better to use mine because then our files will match exactly. As we go through checkpoints, I'll be asking you to compare your files against the official version. Your files don't have to match exactly, and they shouldn't, because you're a programmer who will be making your own node in the game. But they should match _roughly_.

Ok! Here we go.

## Objectives

- Set up your [BFD](bfd)
- Run a modern web app
- Test your app locally and on mobile devices early and often
- Fork a github repo
- Clone a remote repo
- Use a command line interface
- Create a local git branch and push it to your fork

## Tools

- git
- VSCode
- github account
- nvm
- command line interface (terminal)

## Steps

- How this course is structured - philosophy of small iterations
- Introduce the BFD
- Introduce VSCode and essential plugins
- Introduce node command line
- Try creating your own Ionic project
  - Open your command line interface (terminal)
  - `nvm use 12.14.1`
  - `npm i -g ionic`
  - `ionic start myshowdown`
  - `cd myshowdown`
  - `npm run start`
  - Desktop Victory! http://localhost:3000
- Remove Ionic test program
  - `cd ..`
  - `rm -rf myshowdown`
- Run course version instead
  - Fork http://github.com/bltbit/showdown
  - `git clone git@github.com/<yourusername>/showdown.git`
  - `git checkout -b my-checkpoint-10 checkpoint-10`
  - `nvm use`
  - `npm i`
  - `npm run start`
  - Desktop Victory! http://localhost:3000
- Introduce `package.json`
- Introduce utility scripts to maintain merge chain
- Introduce `prettier` and `prettier-plugin-organize-imports`
- Do some mobile device testing
  - `ngrok http 3000`
  - Desktop SSL Victory! `https://<something>.ngrok.io`
  - Mobile Device Victory! `https://<something>.ngrok.io`
- Push your `my-checkpoint-10` branch to your github fork
  - `git push`

## Review

Congratulations, you have forked a github project, run a modern responsive Progressive Web Application, and performed mobile device testing. Go eat a Jolly Rancher, you've earned it. If you're a [BitBlt Patreon supporter](https://www.patreon.com/bltbit) at any level, DM me your physical address on Patreon and and I will mail you one Jolly Rancher in the flavor of your choice of whatever I have, including rare ones.

**[Note]** I know you might think green apple is the best flavor, and you might even be right. But if you choose grape your cherry, I will know how serious you are about learning to program.
