# 110 - Adding Realism (trigger throttle)

http://github.com/bltbit/showdown/tree/checkpoint-110

> The only limitation is that which one sets up in one's own mind.  
> _~Napoleon Hill_

## Objectives

- Learn the difference between what needs to be in React state and what doesn't
- Learn how to throttle user input
- Learn about `useRef`
- Learn about `setTimeout`

## Create your branch

```
git checkout -b my-checkpoint-110 my-checkpoint-100
```

## Steps

- Load your app on a mobile device
- Drum your fingers across the screen quickly and notice how fast it shoots.
- Nobody shoots that fast, revolvers don't move that fast
- How fast _can_ someone shoot?
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WzHG-ibZaKM&ab_channel=JerryMiculek-ProShooter
  - Maybe 100ms throttle?
- Implement throttle pattern using `useRef` and `setTimeout`
  - `useState` is not a good choice because:
    - It causes unnecessary re-renders
    - Double taps can sneak in before state updates
- Retest on mobile device. Touches are blocked while the gun is busy

## Commit, Push, and Compare

- Commit your work to `my-checkpoint-110`
- Push to your fork
- Compare using a mock pull request
- Are there any unintended differences? Fix them now.
- Questions or problems? [Report an issue](https://github.com/bltbit/showdown/issues) to the Showdown repository.

## Review

If you thought this step was easy, you might be in slim company. The real subtlety to this checkpoint is understanding why `useRef` works for the `gunBusy` flag rather than having to use `useState`, and why in fact `useState` is not a good choice. Many hours are spent debugging React state, so it's critical to spend some time understanding why it works, when it works, and what other alternatives are available.
