# 160 - Reload

http://github.com/bltbit/showdown/tree/checkpoint-160

> Each day the world is born anew for him who takes it rightly.
> _~James Russell Lowell_

## Objectives

- Combine skills learned from previous checkpoints to achieve reload capability.

## Tools

-

## Create your branch

```
git checkout -b my-checkpoint-160 my-checkpoint-150
```

## Steps

- Create the reloading audio effect
  - Find a gun cocking sound. I like https://freesound.org/s/177054/.
  - Find a revolver spinning sound. I like https://freesound.org/s/505698/.
  - Import `177054__woodmoose__lowerguncock.wav`
  - Trim down front, middle, and ends
  - Import `505698__ryansitz__revolver-spin.wav`
  - Trim down slow part
  - Paste spin to the end of first import
  - Take final click from first import and copy to end after spinner
  - Use "export multiple" to export current audio to `pwa/src/guns/revolver/sounds/export`
  - Run `npm run audio:generate` to re-generate audio sprites and Typescript definitions
- Apply the reloading audio effect to code
  - Export a `handleReload`
    - We are beginning to make an API!
- Adjust the 'spent' placeholder coloring
- CSS animation (keyframes)
- Don't forget to test on mobile!

## Commit, Push, and Compare

- Commit your work to `my-checkpoint-160`
- Push to your fork
- Compare to the official `checkpoint-160` using a mock pull request
- Are there any unintended differences? Fix them now.
- Questions or problems? [Report an issue](https://github.com/bltbit/showdown/issues) to the Showdown repository.

## Review

You killed it. You combined all the skills built in previous sections to create a new audio and visual effect, and even track additional state in code.
