# 180 - Make a Sigil

http://github.com/bltbit/showdown/tree/checkpoint-180

> Quote
> _~Author_

## Objectives

- Use sigil making techniques to make a logo for your game domain - or use your own technique!

## Tools

- Sigil making

## Create your branch

```
git checkout -b my-checkpoint-180 my-checkpoint-170
```

## Steps

- Think of 3-4 words to describe the "vibe" of your game node
- Draw simple symbols for each one. You can try a few different symbols per word.
- Experiment on connecting the symbols together. I really like this video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ewMksAbgdBI.
- Distill/simplify your drawing down to its essence - there is your sigil!
- Take a photo of it
- Begin with `pwa/art/logo-template.xcf` in Gimp. This will give every node a similar icon underlay for branding
- Import your photo as a new topmost layer
- Crop to a square
- Scale it to fit within the white circle
- Right click on Layer, choose `Add Alpha Channel`
- Use magic selection tool to clean up all the background
- Select the object, grow pixels by a few around it
- Clear the selection
- Fill with gradient fill
- Copy layer
- Clear copied layer, replace with solid background color to create glow
- Add drop shadow to top layer
- Save to `pwa/art/logo.xcf`
- Create a Favicon
  - Resize to 64x64
  - Export to `pwa/public/assets/icon/favicon.png`
  - Undo resize
- Create an Icon
  - Resize to 512x512
  - Export to `pwa/public/assets/icon/icon.png`
- Run both icons through imagemin
  - Add helpers to `pwa/package.json`
  - `npm run icons`
- Test in browser
- Deploy using `firebase deploy --only hosting` and test in browser
- Check https://github.com/bltbit/showdown after some time has passed. You should see your new logo appear in the credits section from `checkpoint-30`!

## Commit, Push, and Compare

- Commit your work to `my-checkpoint-180`
- Push to your fork
- Compare to the official `checkpoint-180` using a mock pull request
- Are there any unintended differences? Fix them now.
- Questions or problems? [Report an issue](https://github.com/bltbit/showdown/issues) to the Showdown repository.

## Review

You learned how to sketch and make your own game art and icons. This can be a powerful tool, if even just temporarily until you find the real thing. Sketching your own art can also give the "real" artist something to work with while you continue making your game. I've learned over the years that it's much easier for someone else to follow/enhance something that already exists. If you can make the first version, however terrible you may think it is, people will have something to follow.
