# 40 - Making a Game

> It's not the notes you play, it's the notes you don't play.  
> _~Miles Davis_

## Objectives

- Establish a blank canvas
- Prevent device-specific quirks up front

## Tools

- Emotion
- CSS

## Create your branch

```
git checkout -b my-checkpoint-40 my-checkpoint-30
```

## Steps

- Why a game? Because it is fun and uses EVERYTHING!
- What are we making? A quickdraw game
  - Target practice
  - Networked
  - App store
- We'll take this from a mobile Progressive Web App all the way to the Apple and Google app stores (optional)
- You'll learn a ton of relevant techniques, gain skills, and experience at the same time. You'll ship something, and that's impressive.
- `cd pwa`
- Set up an `ngrok` shortcut to make it easy. We're going ot be doing a lot of mobile device testing.
  - If you want to pay for ngrok, you can choose your own subdomain. I don't think you need it. Just copy the URL into your shared phone notes.
- Why is mobile device testing so important, so early? Check it out, there's already a problem.
  - On Mobile Safari (iOS), there is a behavior called `overscroll` where the view bounces a bit when you swipe. That might be okay for a web page, but we don't want our app or mobile game to feel that way.
  - Disable overscroll
- Create a blank canvas

## Commit, Push, and Compare

- Commit your work to `my-checkpoint-40`
- Push to your fork
- Compare using a mock pull request
- Are there any unintended differences? Fix them now.
- Questions or problems? [Report an issue](https://github.com/bltbit/showdown/issues) to the Showdown repository.

## Review

Starting with a solid foundation is important because it saves time later and reduces frustrating debugging of issues that went unnoticed for too long.
